People sometimes ask me, you know, you go up in under communism,
you know,
was there anything good about communism <laugh> and it's
difficult for me to talk about it because it's not, uh,
communism is one of those things that's looked down on, like without,
in absolutest terms currently,
but you could still in my per talk about the actual forget communism or whatever
the actual term is, but you know, certain
ways that the society function that we can learn lessons from.
And one of the things in the Soviet union that was highly prized is
knowledge, not even know is wisdom.
The skill of invention of innovation at a young
age. So we're,
we're not talking about a selection process where you pick the best students in
the school to do the mathematics or to read literature.
It's like everybody did it, everybody.
It was almost treated as if anyone could be the next Einstein.
Anybody could be the next, uh, I don't know, Hemingway James Joyce.
And so you're forcing an education on the populace and a rigorous
deep education, like as opposed to kind of like, oh,
we wanna make sure we, um,
<affirmative> we teach to the weakest student in the class,
which American systems can sometimes do,
because we don't wanna leave anyone behind the, the,
the Russian system was anyone can be the strongest student and we're
gonna teach you the strongest student and we're going to,
to pretend or force everybody, even the weakest student to be strong.
And what that results in it's obviously,
this is what people talk about is a huge amount of pressure. Like it,
it's psychologically very difficult. This is why people struggle.
When they go to MIT, this is very competitive environment.
It can be very psychologically difficult, but at the same time,
it's bringing out the best out of people.
And that mathematics was certainly one of those things and exactly what you're
saying, which kind of clicked with me just now,
as opposed to kind of spelling B in the United States,
which I guess you spell, I'm horrible at this,
but it's a competition about spelling, which I'm not sure,
but you could argue doesn't generalize.
Well to the future skills mathematics,
especially this kind of mathematics is essentially formalized competition of
invention of, uh,
of creating a new ideas. And that generalizes really, really well.
So that's, that's quite brilliantly put, I didn't really think about that.
So this is not just about the competition.
This is about diff developing minds that, uh, will come,
come to do some incredible stuff in the future. Yeah.
Actually I wanna respond to a couple of things there. The first one is one, um,
which is this notion of whether or not that is.
Possible in a non authoritative regime. I think it is.
And that's actually why I spent some of my efforts before the COVID thing, uh,
actually trying to, uh, work towards there.
The reason is because if you think about it, let's say in America,
lots of people are pretty serious about training, very hard for football, yes.
Or baseball or basketball. All basketball is very, very accessible,
but lots of people are doing that. Why? Well, actually I think that what this,
what, what,
what was going on with the authoritarian thing was at least the message that was
universally sent was being a good thinker and a creator
of ideas is a good thing. Yes, exactly.
There's no reason why that message can't be sent that's right everywhere.
And I think it actually should be.